Title: Installing Gentoo
Date: 2015-05-30 14:41
Author: Thanh
Category: Uncategorized
Tags: gentoo kde
Slug: 107
Status: draft

Having recently acquired a new PC, after 4 arduous heavy-overclocked
years with my previous one, I had to install Gentoo again.  
I've been a Gentoo user for a few years now but I've only installed it
a couple of times. Here are a handful of hiccups I ran into and I
thought I'd jot them down for next time.

### UEFI

I've only ever installed OSs on BIOS systems with MBR partitions before.
As the new build had a UEFI-capable motherboard and a lot of other cool
kit (an SSD among them), I decided in true Gentoo spirit to make things
faster by skipping the bootloader.

#### UEFI Support

The first issue I ran into is that Gentoo doesn't officially support
installing a UEFI-bootable system; you need to jump over a few hoops.  
The Gentoo wiki comes to the rescue as usual with a nice and concise
article on this:

http://wiki.gentoo.org/wiki/UEFI\_Gentoo\_Quick\_Install\_Guide

#### Stub kernel and initramfs

One thing to note when using the stub kernel is that everything needs to
be compiled into the kernel as we are not loading the initramfs
anymore.  
This means that any device drivers will need to be compiled in. Because
of some dependencies, the AHCI SATA driver wasn't loaded into mine and I
kept getting a stack trace on kernel boot and the following error
message:

    ---[ end Kernel panic - not syncing: VFS: Unable to mount root fs on unknown-block(0,0)

I tried compiling the SATA driver in but it only allowed me to select it
as a module. After some tedious troubleshooting, it turned out that one
of the modules selected in the "Serial ATA and Parallel ATA drivers
(libata)" was blocking AHCI SATA from being compiled in. I just
de-selected everything, ticked "AHCI SATA support" and then ticked
whatever else I needed again.

#### KDE and X server

/etc/conf.d/xdm
