Title: Modding the Filco Majestouch Tenkeyless
Date: 2012-05-16 22:47
Author: Thanh
Category: Misc
Tags: mechanicalkeyboards
Slug: modding-the-filco-majestouch-tenkeyless
Status: published

I've recently made an investment and purchased a Filco Majestouch 2
Tenkeyless, blue switch edition. It was a toss-up between that and the
HappyHacker and I decided I like the arrow keys too much to let go.
[KeyboardCo](http://www.keyboardco.com/ "Keyboard Company") have
exclusive distribution rights here in the UK so I got mine from there.
Next day delivery, top notch service.

![Filco Majestouch 2 Tenkeyless
boxed](https://thanhpham.cloud/upload/images/filco/IMG_20120425_095915.jpg "Filco Majestouch 2 Tenkeyless boxed")

Just above it is my Logitech Wave; quite a nifty design but the quality
isn't amazing and the keys started to stick after about 6 months. Not
bad for £20 though.

The Filco is quite a pricey beast at £114 but I figured as I'm typing
away every day, it will definitely pay itself off.

![Filco Majestouch 2
Tenkeyless](https://thanhpham.cloud/upload/images/filco/IMG_20120425_100426.jpg "Filco Majestouch 2 Tenkeyless")

Shortly after I showed it off to everyone (who cared and had any
interest in keyboards), my friend decided to get a full sized one from
[WASD keyboards](http://www.wasdkeyboards.com/ "WASD Keyboards"). For
those who don't know and haven't clicked the link yet, WASD sell
mechanical keyboards, but what makes them different from the competition
though is that they let you fully [customise your
keycaps](https://twitter.com/#!/firesock/status/202824531398770688/photo/1 "firesock's WASD keyboard")!

As WASD are based on the other side of the pond, I decided to piggy back
on his order and get some custom keys and [some
dampeners](http://www.wasdkeyboards.com/index.php/cherry-mx-rubber-switch-dampeners.html "Cherry MX o-rings")
(at the bottom of the link there is a noise comparison between with and
without o-rings).

![Filco and
parts](https://thanhpham.cloud/upload/images/filco/IMG_20120516_203000.jpg "Filco and parts")

Now that little baby on the bottom left is a keycap puller that came
free with the WASD keyboard but you can get it separately too. Very nice
of them to include that and it will definitely come in handy if one day
you decide to customise your keycaps or maybe just clean your keyboard.

Starting with the Esc key and the qwerty row.

![Qwerty and Esc
out](https://thanhpham.cloud/upload/images/filco/IMG_20120516_203617.jpg "Qwerty and Esc out")

Nice and easy. Now I heard that the bigger keys are quite different and
it's quite easy to break them if you pull them out like a madman. I
decided to consult the infinite wisdom of the Internet, most precisely
Youtube, for some advice. Stumbled upon [this
video](http://youtu.be/1iL8_2Zr36I "How to change / remove Filco bigger keycaps")
which was most helpful! You might want to mute the music though. And so
off the big keys went.

![Bigger keys are
off](https://thanhpham.cloud/upload/images/filco/IMG_20120516_211837.jpg "Bigger keys are off")

There are only 4 long keys on this: the 3 visible ones and the
backspace. After about 1.5 hours, all the keys were dampened. And here
it is in its full glory:

![Modded Filco MJ
TKL](https://thanhpham.cloud/upload/images/filco/IMG_20120516_215214.jpg "Modded Filco MJ TKL")

The picture doesn't show it very well but my 'Windows' keys, or 'Meta'
keys as I prefer to call them now, have a Tux on them.

I must say, the dampened keys are gonna take a while to get used to but
they are much quieter than before. Needless to say the feel is amazing
and it's definitely one of the best keyboards I've typed on so far and
I've owned quite a few (Logitech Wave/G15, countless scissor and laptop
keyboards as well as stock DELL keyboards). If your job involves a lot
of tapping away, this will definitely improve your typing comforts.

For more reference, I urge you to read:

- the [Overclock.net Mechanical Keyboard
Guide](http://www.overclock.net/t/491752/mechanical-keyboard-guide "Overclock.net Mechanical Keyboard Guide")

- the [Elite Keyboards
FAQ](http://elitekeyboards.com/support.php?lang=en "Elite Keyboards FAQ")

And if you just want a chat, sign up to the [GeekHack
forums](http://geekhack.org/ "Geek Hack forums").
